# Hacking on a Mac
## Command Line According to Abdur

Using command line is fun. There's a certain element of novelty when you're using the Terminal to make your computer do what you want, if you've only ever used the graphical user interface (GUI) to make your way through the folders and applications. On a Mac, I expected this process to be a bit difficult, but so far it has been simple to install the various tools we've been using during the semester. Ruby, Pandoc, Postgres, and other plugins we need to blog and write were relatively painless to install on my computer, with the help of Brandon. Almost all the problems were because I made a mistake during the installation process. 

However, there is a reason that computers these days are designed for GUI use. Command line can be clunky, especially if you're new to it and are [learning on your own](https://learnrubythehardway.org/book/appendixa.html "Learn Command Line the Hard Way"). I was fortunate to have learned the basics of Linux and Unix, which are used in Mac terminals, in my Intro to Programming class during my junior year. Coming armed with that knowledge of how to navigate directories and files meant I just had to relearn all the commands instead of memorizing them from scratch. Brandon made a very useful [command line quiz](https://bmw9t.github.io/command_line_browser_quiz/ "Command line quiz") that made the process even simpler. Of course, you don't need to worry if some keywords fall through the cracks because it's easy to look anything up, but command line is all about speed and knowing everything in your head makes it that much easier. The commands are intuitive once you get to know a few of them, and most of the time if you forget one, you can guess what it is.

Speaking of making it easier, the most interesting part of command line (to me) is Vim. Vim is an incredibly basic text editor that's included in Terminal. For many people, it's faster to open a .txt file or a .md file in Sublime or Atom instead of using Vim. I usually work with Terminal and a Safari window in full screen together so opening another application's window means I can't see my resources while I work on a file. For me it's faster to open the file in Vim and edit it right there in Terminal rather than switch to a different app. It took a while to learn because it is not intuitive at all, but once you get the hang of it, it's a useful tool for basic files of code or text. You may hate it, and that's fine! I know I'm in the minority when I say I like it, so I get it. All this is deeply customizable; you can change everything about your Terminal, or iTerm, or whatever app you use for command line tools. The beauty of command line is that because you're not using the GUI, you aren't restricted in what you can do on your computer, so you can also change everything about your computer if you want. 

I told you that command line was fun, and all of that may not sound all that fun to you. That's ok! The fun part comes now: Github. Aidan wrote a post about Github from his perspective which you should read to get an idea of how it works on a PC. It's presumably the same on a Mac. Github consists of repositories for mainly code but all sorts of data can be hosted on it. For example, the original code used to launch Apollo 11 is hosted in a [repository](https://github.com/chrislgarry/Apollo-11 "Original Apollo 11 code") on Github for anyone to look at. Github uses Git, a sort of programming language but simpler, to communicate with computers. After developing a long document of code or a blog post, you'll have to _push_ it to our Github repository. I had to look up how to do it the first few times, but the process is extremely satisfying. It's fun to work on a project on your computer and instantly see it on the internet as soon as you're done. 

Hopefully this provided some insight on how command line and Terminal work on Macs. The resources linked in the post should help on your journey through learning all about command line tools and if not, feel free to email/Slack me if you'd like. Happy hacking!